Game of Thrones - Season 4 Summary

Overview
Season 4 begins with the Lannisters seemingly holding absolute power over Westeros following the massacre of the Starks at the Red Wedding. However, new arrivals in the capital and internal family betrayals quickly threaten their hold on the Iron Throne. Meanwhile, the Night's Watch faces its greatest challenge as the massive wildling army arrives at the Wall.

King's Landing and The Purple Wedding
The capital prepares for the royal wedding between King Joffrey and Margaery Tyrell. Among the guests is Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne, who harbors a deep hatred for the Lannisters because Tywin Lannister ordered the rape and murder of Oberyn's sister during Robert's Rebellion. During the wedding feast, Joffrey is fatally poisoned and dies gruesomely in front of the court. Cersei immediately blames Tyrion and his new wife, Sansa Stark.

Sansa manages to escape the city with the help of Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish. Tyrion is arrested and subjected to a sham trial orchestrated by his father, Tywin. Realizing he will not get justice, Tyrion demands a trial by combat. Oberyn Martell volunteers to be Tyrion's champion against the crown's champion, the monstrous Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane (the man who killed Oberyn's sister). In the duel, Oberyn gains the upper hand but becomes too focused on extracting a confession; The Mountain seizes the opportunity, crushing Oberyn's skull.

Condemned to death, Tyrion is secretly freed from his cell by his brother Jaime and Varys. Before fleeing the city, Tyrion sneaks into his father's chambers, where he discovers his former lover, Shae, in Tywin's bed. Heartbroken and enraged, Tyrion strangles Shae and then shoots Tywin with a crossbow while Tywin is on the privy. Tyrion is then smuggled onto a ship bound for Essos.

The Riverlands and The Vale
Following Joffrey's death, Littlefinger takes Sansa to the impregnable fortress of the Eyrie in the Vale, where he marries Sansa's aunt, Lysa Arryn. Lysa's jealousy of Sansa eventually leads her to attack her niece. Littlefinger intervenes, pushing Lysa to her death through the Moon Door and manipulating Sansa into covering up the murder.

Elsewhere, Arya Stark travels the war-torn Riverlands with her captor, Sandor "The Hound" Clegane, who hopes to ransom her to her surviving family. They arrive at the Vale only to learn Lysa has just died. Shortly after, they encounter Brienne of Tarth, who is searching for the Stark girls to fulfill a vow made to Catelyn Stark. Brienne and The Hound engage in a brutal fight, ending with The Hound falling off a cliff and sustaining mortal wounds. Arya refuses to put him out of his misery, takes his coin, and boards a ship sailing to the free city of Braavos.

The Wall and the North
Jon Snow warns the Night's Watch that Mance Rayder's massive wildling army is coming. The wildlings attack Castle Black from both sides of the Wall in a spectacular, bloody night battle. The Watch manages to hold them off, but Jon's former lover, the wildling Ygritte, is killed in his arms. Knowing they cannot survive another assault, Jon ventures out to assassinate Mance Rayder. Before he can, Stannis Baratheon's army arrives unexpectedly, crushing the wildling forces and taking Mance prisoner.

In the North, Roose Bolton secures his position as Warden. His sadistic bastard son, Ramsay, completes his psychological destruction of Theon Greyjoy. Ramsay uses a deeply traumatized Theon (now answering only to "Reek") to trick the ironborn holding the strategic fortress of Moat Cailin into surrendering. For this success, Roose legitimizes Ramsay, making him a true Bolton.

Across the Narrow Sea (Essos)
Daenerys Targaryen marches on Meereen, the largest and most formidable of the slave cities. She successfully conquers it and decides that instead of sailing immediately for Westeros, she must learn how to rule and govern her newly freed people. Her rule faces severe challenges, including a fierce insurgency from the former slave masters. Furthermore, she makes a devastating discovery: her most trusted advisor, Jorah Mormont, originally spied on her for King Robert. She banishes Jorah from her service. Finally, after her largest dragon, Drogon, burns a young child to death, a heartbroken Daenerys chains her two smaller dragons in the catacombs beneath the city, though Drogon escapes into the wild.