Game of Thrones - Season 2 Summary

Overview
Season 2 focuses on the immediate fallout from Ned Stark's death and the beginning of the "War of the Five Kings." A red comet appears in the sky, interpreted differently across the world but largely seen as an omen of blood and war. Five different leaders have now laid claim to thrones across Westeros: Joffrey Baratheon (on the Iron Throne), Robb Stark (King in the North), Balon Greyjoy (King of the Iron Islands), and Robert's two brothers, Stannis and Renly Baratheon.

King's Landing
Tyrion Lannister arrives in the capital to act as Hand of the King in place of his father, Tywin, who is busy fighting Robb Stark. Tyrion's main goals are to rein in his cruel and erratic nephew, King Joffrey, check his sister Cersei's power, and prepare the city's defenses against an impending attack by Stannis Baratheon. Tyrion uses his wit and political maneuvering to root out spies and forge alliances.

The climax in the capital comes during the Battle of the Blackwater. Stannis's massive fleet attacks the city. Tyrion leads the defense, utilizing a massive ship filled with volatile, green "wildfire" to destroy a large portion of Stannis's fleet. When Joffrey cowers, Tyrion leads a ground counter-attack but is severely wounded by one of his own men in an assassination attempt. Just as the city is about to fall, Tywin Lannister arrives with the Tyrell army, crushing Stannis's forces and saving King's Landing.

Dragonstone and The Stormlands
Stannis Baratheon, the rightful heir to Robert, is under the influence of a mysterious red priestess named Melisandre, who worships the Lord of Light. Stannis's younger brother, Renly, has also claimed the throne and gathered a massive army with the wealthy Tyrell family. Refusing to yield to Renly, Stannis allows Melisandre to use blood magic; she gives birth to a shadowy demon that assassinates Renly in his tent. Most of Renly's bannermen flock to Stannis, giving him the numbers he needs to attack King's Landing (leading to the Battle of the Blackwater).

The North and the Riverlands
Robb Stark continues his winning streak against the Lannisters but makes critical political mistakes. He sends his childhood friend and ward, Theon Greyjoy, to the Iron Islands to forge an alliance with Theon's father, Balon. Instead, Balon declares himself King of the Iron Islands and attacks the North. Seeking to prove himself to his father, Theon betrays Robb and captures a lightly-defended Winterfell. Robb's younger brothers, Bran and Rickon, manage to escape with the help of the wildling Osha and the gentle giant Hodor. Meanwhile, Robb breaks a vow to marry a Frey girl by falling in love with and secretly marrying a battlefield healer named Talisa.

Beyond the Wall
The Night's Watch ventures deep into the frozen wilderness north of the Wall to investigate the disappearance of the wildlings and rumors of the White Walkers. Jon Snow captures a wildling woman named Ygritte, but ends up being captured himself. To survive and gather intelligence for the Watch, Jon is ordered by a veteran ranger, Qhorin Halfhand, to kill him in a staged fight. Jon does so, earning the trust of the wildlings so he can infiltrate their massive, marching army. Meanwhile, Samwell Tarly and other brothers of the Watch hear three horn blasts—the signal for White Walkers—and see an enormous army of the undead marching toward them.

Across the Narrow Sea (Essos)
Daenerys Targaryen, along with the remnants of her Dothraki khalasar and her three newborn dragons, wander the deadly Red Waste until they reach the wealthy, enigmatic city of Qarth. Daenerys seeks ships and an army to cross the sea and take Westeros. However, the ruling council refuses to help her. Her dragons are stolen by Pyat Pree and the warlocks of Qarth and taken to the House of the Undying. Daenerys enters the magical tower, experiences strange visions, and ultimately uses her dragons (uttering the famous command "Dracarys") to burn the warlock. She locks the traitorous city leader in a vault and loots his wealth to buy a small ship, continuing her journey.